SECTION: Government College University Hyderabad
 Section About Us Information of GC University Hyd.  

SECTION: About University :
Government College University Hyderabad is one of Pakistan’s oldest and prime educational institutions. Its genesis dates back to 1st October 1917, with the title of “Sindh National Arts College Hyderabad” having being contemplated by the International Theosophical Society. The crucial role in running the International Theosophical Society was played by its second president, Dr. Annie Be sant, a well -known educationist, orator, political and social figure of the undivided Indian sub -continent. Another famous figure Dr. Ernest Egerton Wood, the secretary to National Educational Trust, continued “National Educational Movement” activities. He  appealed through the newspapers for the establishment of new educational institutes in India.  Since there was no college in Hyderabad Sindh, the students who wanted to continue higher education had to go to far off cities like Bombay. The first response of enormous contribution appeared from a youth of Sindh with a donation of Rs. 20,000/= on a con dition to establish a college in Hyderabad Sindh. Another important figure among the city’s aristocracy was Diwan Dayaram Gidumal, a judge by profession. He was the driving factor behind the establishment of a college in Hyderabad. Dr. Wood landed in Hyder abad, Sindh, on August 24, 1917, after a long journey from Madras. The people of Hyderabad Sindh gave a large sum of money, estimated to be over Rs. 5000/= in less than a week. The donation was quite enough to launch the institute. Dr. Wood, within five we eks, purchased all necessary furniture, books, equipment, etc., and hired the staff to run the institute. The college’s location was decided on amid the city’s scenic surroundings. Seth Pertab Rai Manghar Singh and a few others contributed their best piece  of 64 acres of cultivated land for this beautiful deed. The date of the college’s Foundation was chosen to coincide with Dr. Besant’s birthday, 1st October 1917. Dr. Wood was appointed its founder Principal. The National Educational Trust provided the initial funding for the college. Later, in 1921, the college was given to the “DiwanMetharamDarmada Trust” (DMD), which was run by DiwanDayaramGidumal, who provided Rs.100000/= for the college’s affiliation with Bombay University. After DiwanD ayaramGidumal’s death, the college was renamed D. G. National College Hyderabad. The college initially began its journey as intermediate Arts College, soon the courses were offered in B.Sc. in Industrial Science; B. A. in Agriculture and Political Science; and B.Com. In June 1927, B. A. (Hons.) in English, History, Economics and Philosophy were also offered. In 1934, Intermediate science classes were also started, which made the college a Science College. In 1940, there was the commencement of M. A. classes in Sindhi Literature. In 194 5, classes for B.Sc. were started in Zoology, Botany and Chemistry. Later on, due to political turmoil in the Indian sub -continent, the college was closed. Its faculty and other staff migrated from Hyderabad to other parts of India, leaving behind the inst itute deserted. The second phase of this historic educational institution began after the establishment of Pakistan. D. G. National College Hyderabad, due to this voluntary departure of its original owners, was taken over by the Government of Sindh. It decided to reopen it on 21st June 1948 with the same name “D. G. National Government College Hyderabad”. Prof. Dr. Adri an Duarte was appointed as its Principal. Dr. Duarte had to rebuild the college again from the ground level. The extraordinary leadership of the appointed Principal was instrumental in the re - birth of this fantastic institute. The re-birth of this gloriou s institute took place under the remarkable leadership with 224 students on the roll and a faculty comprised of 6 professors, 15 Lecturers and three demonstrators. There was co -education till 1952 -. as there was no college for the girls. On 9th April 1949, the college was renamed “Government Arts College, Hyderabad”. Later, on 7th March 1951, the college was renamed “Government College Hyderabad” through a government  resolution and was allowed to teach up to B. Sc. level in affiliation with Sindh University. Within the next few years, there was a significant increase in the number of science students. During the academic session 1952 -53, the enrolment surpassed 1000. Government College Hyderabad has the honour of starting post -graduate classes in Arts and Science for the first time after Sindh University was shifted from Karachi to Hyderabad. Its professors were given the status of part - time Professors of the Universi ty. The commencement of M. A. (Urdu & English) and M.Sc. (Physics; Chemistry; Mathematics and Statistics) in I991 and later M.Sc. in Zoology and Botany in 1993 ushered a new era in the history of this institution. Another milestone in the pathway towards s uccess was the commencement of Bachelor of Computer Science (BCS) in 2002. Being one of the oldest institutions of Sindh and with heritage in academic excellence, people of Hyderabad, Alumni and the faculty of this institution looked forward for the up-gradation to the level of university. This demand had its due voice in print and electronic media of Sindh province. The demand towards the up -gradation as University touched its peak when one of its shining stars, Raja Pervez Ashraf, occupied the highest seat of Prime Minister of Islamic Republic of Pakistan. His Excellency, Raja Pervez Ashraf, visited his alma mater on  23rd February 2013. The Alumni and the faculty members of government College Hyderabad were determined to keep calling the attention of the political, social and educational leadership towards the noble cause of the establishment of Government College Uni versity Hyderabad. A delegate of Alumni comprised of Prof. Dr. Nasiruddin Shaikh, Prof. Muhammad Idris Khan, Mr. Abdul Rehman Rajput (Ex MPA), Mr. Mazharul Haq Siddiqui (Ex VC, Sindh University), Mr. Kazi Asad Abid (renowned Journalist), met with Excellenc y Syed Murad Ali Shah, Chief Minister, Sindh. The delegate briefed the Excellency CM about the outstanding contribution of their alma mater in nation -building and services being rendered for almost a century. The representative reiterated the Alumni demand for the up -gradation of Government College Hyderabad to a university. The CM Sindh appreciated  the concerns of all Phulelians. The long -awaited day finally arrived. His Excellency, Syed Murad Ali Shah, CM Sindh, officially announced the up -gradation of the status of Government College Hyderabad as University on 9th of October 2017, while presiding over the seminar “Government College Hyderabad: Past, Present, and Future” at the Assembly Hall of Government College Hyderabad. The Sindh Government Gazette notification vides, the title “Government College University Hyderabad Act 2018”, was issued on 21 st May 2018 by the Provincial Assembly of Sindh, thus conferring upon official status to Government College University Hyderabad. The official notification of Prof. Dr. Nasiruddin Shaikh (Principal, Government College Hyderabad) as acting vice chancellor o n 13th February 2019. The teaching & learning started from 2020. The Chief Minister of Sindh, Syed Murad Ali Shah appointed Prof. Dr. Tayyaba Zarif as the first regular Vice Chancellor of GC University Hyderabad after the recommendations from search commit tee. She took charge as first founder Vice Chancellor of GC University on 12th March 2021 and leading the ship with new ideas, enthusiasm and motivation to strengthening the university.    

SECTION: About College:
 The college was established in 1917. Prior to the partition of the sub -continent, a board of trustees was administering this institution. However, all of them migrated to India in 1947 .The Government of Sindh took over the college on 21st June 1948. The c ollege imparted education up to intermediate level to the student of the faculty of science and up to B.A (Hons:) to the student belonging to the faculty of Arts. Total number of the student enrolled in 1948 -49 was 224 and total number of teacher was 25. T here was co -education in this institute up to 1951 -52 as there was no separate college for girls by then. The faculty of science was upgraded to the degree classes in March 1951 as the number of students wishing to seek admission in B.Sc. class soared rapidly. In 1961 -62 the University of Sindh took over teaching of honours classes. Ever since 1948,the college  continues to occupy unique positions as a premier institution of the province of Sindh, the students of this college have been achieving enviable position in various examination conducted by the board of intermediate & secondary education, Hyderabad and t he University of Sindh .A glimpse of the honours list placed in the assembly hall bearers testimony to this claim likewise, our students continue to win a large number of prizes and trophies in the field of extra -curricular activities . A large number of o ld boys of this college are now serving the nation in senior administrative position and other field of nation building activities.    FOUNDATION  1st October, 1917  It was founded on 1st October 1917 by Mrs. Annie Besant  who was the President of International Theosophical Society, 

SECTION: National Education Movement and
National Education Trust. 1917  Contemplated by a devoted group of renowned philanthropists and elite of the city under the aegis of a trust "Diwan Metharam Gidu Mal Darmada Trust" 1917  The Land of the college beside the Phuleli 

SECTION: Canal was donated by Seth Pertab Rai
Manghar Singh. 1917  The College was named as SINDH NATIONAL ARTS COLLEGE, HYDERABAD. 1st PRINCIPAL  1917  Prof. Dr. Earnest Wood , (Honorary Secretary, NET) was appointed as the first Principal. REGISTRATION  Febuary,191 9 The college was registered by Hyderabad College, Board. LIBRARY  1920  Establishment of the College Library. AFFILIATION  1921  Affiliated with Bombay University. 2nd PRINCIPAL  1923  Mr. Hashmat Rai Lekh Raj appointed as Principal. 3rd PRINCIPAL  1924  Mr.Hukum Chand Kumar appointed as Principal. 4th PRINCIPAL  July, 1925  Mr. Motomal Mangha Ram Gadwani appointed as Principal.  RENAME  1925  College was renamed as NADIR SHAH EDULJI DINSHAW (N.E.D) NATIONAL COLLEGE, HYDERABAD. 

SECTION: RESTORATION OF
PREVIOUSE NAME  1925  The previous title SINDH NATIONAL ARTS COLLEGE was restored after some time. FIRST MAGAZINE  1925  College's first magazine named "PHULELI" was published. 5th PRINCIPAL  1926  Mr. Nanak Ram Wasan Mal Thandani appointed as Principal. DEGREE CLASSES  20 June, 1927  Classes of B.A. (Honours) Degree in English, History, Economics, Philosophy began. RENAME  20 June,1928  The College was renamed as DAYARAM GIDDUMAL NATIONAL COLLEGE , HYDERABAD. 6th PRINCIPAL  1929  Mr. Nirmal Das Dharam Das Gur Bakhshani appointed as Principal. 7th PRINCIPAL  1932  Mr. Bhagat Ram Kumar appointed as Principal. 

SECTION: INTERMEDIATE
SCIENCE CLASSES  1935  Commencement of Intermediate Science classes. 8th PRINCIPAL  1938  Mr.Hira Lal Srichand Bhrwani appinted as Principal. 

SECTION: POST GRADUATION
(ARTS)  1940  Commencement of M.A. Literature classes. 5th August,1941  Foundation of "LATIF SOCIETY" . 1941  Foundation of Ex -Students Union. SILVER JUBILEE  20th June 1942  Silver Jubilee Celebration of the College. 

SECTION: DEGREE SCIENCE
CLASSES  1945  Commencement of B.Sc. classes in Zoology, Botany, and Chemistry. 1947  The College was closed due to Partition of the Sub -Continent.   21st June, 1948  The College was took over by the Government of Sindh. PRINCIPAL  June, 1948  Prof. Adrian Duarte  appointed as the Principal. RENAME  1948  The College was renamed as "GOVERNMENT COLLEGE HYDERABAD" . POST GRADUATE M.Sc. CLASSES  1991 -1992  Commencement of Post -Graduate classes for M.Sc. in Physics, Chemistry, Zoology, Botany, Mathematics, and Statistics. PLATINUM JUBILEE  5 - 15 

SECTION: December
1994  Platinum Jubilee Celebrations.   

SECTION: Senate:
 The Senate is one of the statutory bodies established by the GCUH Act 2018. It is responsible for overseeing academic matters such as curriculum development, student admissions, and degree programs. The Senate also approves policies related to academic matters. The GCUH has a very active Senate body that regularly meets and guides the University on strategic lines and oversees the governance of the institution.   

SECTION: Syndicate:
 The Syndicate is responsible for overall governance of Government College University Hyderabad. It approves policies related to administrative matters such as human resources, infrastructure development, and student affairs. The GCUH has a very dynamic and  vibrant Syndicate that regularly meets and discusses the progress, policies and practices of the university and provides guidance as well as approvals on matters of finance, administration, academics and overall operations.   

SECTION: Academic Council:
 

SECTION: The Academic Council is responsible for overseeing academic matters at Government College
University Hyderabad. It approves new degree programs, reviews existing programs, and ensures that academic standards are maintained. The Academic Council at GCUH has  been constituted, notified and functioning as per the GCUH Act 2018.  

SECTION: Selection Board :
 

SECTION: The Selection Board is responsible for overseeing the recruitment and selection process at the
GCUH. The Selection Board scrutinizes the profiles of applicants for appointment on various positions of the varsity, reviews cases of promotion and appointment of eminently qualified persons as a recommendatory forum for the University Syndicate. The Selection Board at GCUH has been constituted, notified and functioning as per the GCUH Act 2018.   

SECTION: Finance and Planning Committee :
The Finance and Planning Committee (FPC) is responsible for financial management at Government College University Hyderabad. It prepares the annual budget, monitors expenditures, and ensures that financial policies are followed. The FPC at GCUH has been co nstituted, notified and functioning as per the GCUH Act 2018.   Board of Studies & Faculties :  The Board of Studies is another important statutory body established by the GCUH Act 2018. It is responsible for overseeing academic programs offered by Government College University Hyderabad. The Board of Studies approves new academic programs, reviews e xisting programs, and ensures that academic standards are maintained. The Board of Studies at GCUH has been constituted, notified and functioning as per the GCUH Act 2018. With the progressive expansion of the universities and launch of new programs and faculties.    Advanced Studies & Research Board :  The Advanced Studies & Research Board is responsible for advising the authorities on all matters connected with Advanced Studies and Research in the University. It is also mandated to consider instituting various research degrees at the varsity and finalized research supervisors and panels for various studies as well as for the students undertaking research at the highest level. GCUH has notified ASRB with the approval of the statutory body of the University.  

SECTION: From Alumni:
 Being established in 1917, Government College, Hyderabad is one of the oldest institutions in Pakistan. The students who have studied in this institution are serving not only all over the country but also abroad. Whenever some of them meet and talk about t heir past academic experiences, the days passed in Government College are remembered with pride and happiness.  

SECTION: It was felt by many old students of this Alumni that there should be some organization of the old
students so they should meet every year to exchange their views, revive old memories and think and work on some concrete welfare schemes for mutual benefits a nd try to help those old college mates who have some genuine problems.  With this object in mind old boys of Government College, Hyderabad gathered on 29 -01-1998 at Government College, Hyderabad and decided to form an organization and the name was proposed as ALUMNI ASSOCIATION, GOVERNMENT COLLEGE, HYDERABAD. The Alumni Associ ation, Government College, Hyderabad works as an Independent, Non -political and Non -profit body.  

SECTION: Vice Chancellor Message:


SECTION: It gives me immense pleasure to welcome you to one of the most historic educational institutions
of the country, GC University Hyderabad. For over a century this institute in capacity of a Degree College has produced amazing talent and contributed to commu nity development. Now, being given university status in 2018, this institute has duly been recognized by the Government and a whole new avenue of development has been opened up for the students as well as the faculty. It is a matter of pride for me, especi ally as a female, to be the maiden Vice Chancellor of the first public sector university in Hyderabad. Taking pride in the history, culture and achievements of this institute, the GC University Hyderabad will now aim for excellence on the canvas of Higher Education and lead through research, innovation, technology, collaboration and quality teaching - learning. The GC University Hyderabad campus has all the necessary facilities and resources available to enable our students to learn, innovate, excel and compe te at the highest level with the amazing team of GC University Hyderabad leaving no stones unturned to deliver their best for the development of our students. With the support of the Government and with a focus on continuous improvement and a fresh outlook , GC University Hyderabad aims to become one of the best Public Sector Higher Education Institutions of the region in times to come. Prof. Dr. Tayyaba Zarif 

SECTION: Vice Chancellor


SECTION: GC University Hyderabad
 

SECTION: Government College University Hyderabad
 

SECTION: Section Department of Botany:
 

SECTION: Introduction
The Botany program comprises a set of courses that are divided into two levels: lower - division preparation courses and upper -division core courses. The lower -division preparatory courses consist of Plant Form, Function and Diversity, Animal Form, Function and Diversity, and Introductory Cell and Molecular Biology. These courses provide foundational knowledge in biology. The upper -division core courses, na mely Genetics, Ecology, and Evolution, delve deeper into the subject matter and are essential components of the Botany degree program. Students pursuing a Botany major will subsequently proceed to register for courses that encompass the study of plants, al gae, and fungi. These courses include Evolution and Diversity of Plants, Biology of Algae and Fungi, Plant Taxonomy, Dendrology, Range Vegetation, and Plant Physiology.  

SECTION: The Botany degree is an appropriate academic program for students who possess an
interest in pursuing careers in various applied fields. These fields encompass natural resource management agencies such as the National Park Service, Plantation Officers, See d Certification, Research Institutes and Academia. Additionally, individuals with a 

SECTION: Botany degree can find employment opportunities in businesses that specialize in
marketing plants, such as florists and herb shops. Furthermore, this degree can also lead to careers in the field of science. The Botany major also equips students with the necessary knowledge and skills to pursue advanced academic degrees such as Master's and Ph.D. programs that specialize in the study of plants and fungi.  

SECTION: Vision
Impart quality education, innovative research to solve society’s local problems by developing leadership for prosperous Sindh, Pakistan as an agricultural country.   

SECTION: Mission
To develop excellent leadership in teaching Plant Sciences, Microbiology, Horticulture, etc. To develop youth as good human beings, citizens with civic sense, and persons aware of the local, regional, and national problems having enthusiasm and potential t o solve these problems.  

SECTION: Goals
The graduate of this department will fit into a wide range of career opportunities, i.e., teaching and technical positions in universities, government departments, and research organizations. Our focus is to develop self -confidence to move towards entrepre neurial attitudes by exploring new fields of the world and employment for others.  

SECTION: Academic Programs:
 BS Botany (4 Years) BS Bio -Technology (4 Years) BS Microbiology (4 Years)             

SECTION: Faculty Members:
 Dr: Altaf Ahmed Simair  Professor & Chairman 

SECTION: Muhammad Aqil  Lecturer
  

SECTION: Government College University Hyderabad
 

SECTION: Section Department of Chemistry :
 

SECTION: Faculty Members:
  Dr: Asif Ali Bhatti  Chairman and 

SECTION: Associate Professor
Dr: Naseem Ul Ghani 

SECTION: Qureshi  Associate Professor
Dr: Mazhar Iqbal 

SECTION: Khaskheli  Associate Professor
Dr: Asghar Ali  Associate Professor Dr: Tahira  Research Officer Dr: Mahnoor Saleem  Teacher Assistant (TA) Dr: Miss Labiba  Teacher Assistant (TA)    

SECTION: Government College University Hyderabad
 

SECTION: Section Department of Computer Science CS  :
 

SECTION: Introduction


SECTION: Department of Computer Science has always played leading role in academic and
extracurricular activities of the university. The department has well equipped laboratories with latest facilities with highly qualified and well trained and experienced, enthusiastic and devoted faculty members. The teaching has been carried out through multimedia along with different tactics like activities, group discussi on etc.  

SECTION: Vision


SECTION: Department of Computer Science carries the vision to be recognized as the professional
and scientific leaders of the society by providing conducive and innovative teaching, learning, and research environment to encourage innovation and entrepreneurship.  

SECTION: Mission
Our mission is to prepare self -reliant and skilled professionals with urge for continuous learning in order to contribute to society by providing effective learning and research practices, global engagement, and experiential as well as interactive practice s combined with industry and society needs.  

SECTION: Goals


SECTION: To realize our vision we must achieve the following goals:
   

SECTION: Undergraduate Program


SECTION: The goals of our undergraduate programs are to :
 1. Teach students how to use computers effectively, creatively, and intelligently; 2. Teach Information technology as a multifaceted, humanistic discipline of problem solving; 3. Provide up -to-date curricula in the technical and scientific knowledge needed for the professional and academic goals of our students; 4. Encourage and participate in interdisciplinary undergraduate educational opportunities at GCUH; 5. Teach students how to acquire new knowledge, independently, in a world that changes with ever increasing rapidity; 6. Provide students with experiential learning opportunities; 7. Educate an increasing number of undergraduates in CS to meet the growing demands of the regional and national economy  

SECTION: Graduate Program


SECTION: The goals of our MS and PhD graduate programs are to :
 Offer a high quality flexible graduate curriculum with an emphasis in Intelligent Systems; 

SECTION: Encourage and participate in interdisciplinary graduate educational opportunities at GCUH
Teach our students how to extend the frontiers of Information technology knowledge; Support high -quality faculty research programs;    

SECTION: Academic Programs Currently Offering
 BS Computer Science (4 Years) BS Artificial Intelligence (4 Years) BS Data Science (4 Years)  

SECTION: Proposed Academic Programs


SECTION: PhD Program
 

SECTION: Faculty Members  of Computer Science CS :
 Prof. Dr. Imtiaz Brohi   Professor & Chairman Mr. Tariq Hussain 

SECTION: Jalbani    Associate  Professor
Mr. Syed Sohail Ahmed 

SECTION: Shah  Assistant Professor
Mr. Salman Qazi  Assistant Professor Dr. Dodo Khan  Lecturer Mr. Muhammad Irfan 

SECTION: Baloch  Lecturer
 Mr. Syed Abrar Ali Shah  Lecturer Mr. Zeeshan Ahmed 

SECTION: Mughal  Lecturer
 Mr. Akhtar Hussain 

SECTION: Soomro  Lecturer
Engr. Mazhar Basheer 

SECTION: Arain  Lecturer
Mr. Masroor Ahmed 

SECTION: Nizamani  Lecturer
Mr. Engr. Mahaveer 

SECTION: Rathi    Lecturer
 Miss. Komal Naz  Lecturer   Dr. Mujeeb -ur-Rehman 

SECTION: Jamali
 

SECTION: Lecturer
Miss. Pooja Kumari  Teaching Assistant Ms. Mehak Ali  Teaching Assistant Mr. Faizan ali  Teaching Assistant Mr. Muhammad 

SECTION: Haibtullah Channa  Teaching Assistant
Mr. Muhammad Bux  Assistant - Artificial 

SECTION: Intelligence LAB
Miss. Sana Shaikh 

SECTION: Lab Assistant
 Mr. Jarar Hussain 

SECTION: Lab Attendant
   

SECTION: Government College University Hyderabad
 

SECTION: Section Department of Information Technology IT :
 

SECTION: Introduction


SECTION: Department of Information Technology has always played leading role in academic and
extracurricular activities of the university. The department has well equipped laboratories with latest facilities with highly qualified and well trained and experienced, enthusiastic and devoted faculty members. The teaching has been carried out through multimedia along with different tactics like activi ties, group discussion etc.  

SECTION: Vision
To become a front -runner in preparing graduates to be efficient problem solvers, researchers, innovators and entrepreneurs, and making them competent professionals by enabling them to take up any kind of challenges in Information Technology industry or research organizations they serve.  

SECTION: Mission
To create, share, and apply knowledge in Information Technology, including in interdisciplinary areas that extend the scope of Information Technology and benefit humanity; to educate students to be successful, ethical, and effective problem solvers and life-long learners who will contribute positively to the economic wellbeing of our region and nation and who are prepared to tackle complex 21st Century challenges facing the world.   

SECTION: Goals


SECTION: To realize our vision we must achieve the following goals:
  

SECTION: Undergraduate Program


SECTION: The goals of our undergraduate programs are to :
 1. Teach students how to use computers effectively, creatively, and intelligently; 2. Teach Information technology as a multifaceted, humanistic discipline of problem solving; 3. Provide up -to-date curricula in the technical and scientific knowledge needed for the professional and academic goals of our students; 4. Encourage and participate in interdisciplinary undergraduate educational opportunities at GCUH; 5. Teach students how to acquire new knowledge, independently, in a world that changes with ever increasing rapidity; 6. Provide students with experiential learning opportunities; 7. Educate an increasing number of undergraduates in IT to meet the growing demands of the regional and national economy  

SECTION: Graduate Program


SECTION: The goals of our MS and PhD graduate programs are to :
 Offer a high quality flexible graduate curriculum with an emphasis in Intelligent Systems; 

SECTION: Encourage and participate in interdisciplinary graduate educational opportunities at GCUH
Teach our students how to extend the frontiers of Information technology knowledge; Support high -quality faculty research programs;   

SECTION: Academic Programs Currently Offering
 BS Information Technology (4 Years) MS Information Technology (2 Years)  

SECTION: Proposed Academic Programs


SECTION: PhD Program
 

SECTION: Faculty Members  of Information Technology IT :
 Prof. Dr. Imtiaz Brohi   Professor & Chairman Dr. Sheeba Memon   Assistant  Professor Engr. Dr. Allah Rakhio 

SECTION: Junejo   Assistant Professor
Engr. Naeem Ahmed   Lecturer Mr. Ahmed Asghar  Lecturer Miss. Ufaque Shaikh  Lecturer  Mr. Muhammad 

SECTION: Waseem   Lecturer
Miss. Iqra Kanwal Lakho  Lecturer  Ms. Madiha   Lecturer Mr. Hakim Ali Junejo  Lecturer Mr. Zulfiqar Gul Shaikh  Lecturer Mr. Amjad Khowaja   Lecturer  Miss. Quratulain 

SECTION: Laghari   Teaching Assistant
Mr. Waqar Ali Soomro  Teaching Assistant Miss. Fariha Shahid  Teaching Assistant Mr. Khaleel Ahmed   Teaching Assistant Mr. Iqrar Ali Shah   Teaching Assistant   

SECTION: Government College University Hyderabad
 

SECTION: Section Department of Mathematics :
 

SECTION: Introduction
Mathematics is a key subject in almost all disciplines of natural and social sciences. It offers diversified courses for all departments of the university. Beside running its own four year’s bachelor degree program i.e. BS (Mathematics).  

SECTION: Vision


SECTION: To attain excellence in teaching Mathematics at graduate and post graduate level students
in such a way that it will not only help them to obtain a promising career but also they are able to serve the society.  

SECTION: Mission
1- To provide a strong foundation of Mathematics through variety of courses offered by the department for all disciplines of the university.  2- To provide students a solid background of mathematics with the aim of producing mathematicians, who can use mathematics for the development of society.  3- To develop research facilities and establishing an inspiring environment for research in core areas of Mathematics.  4- To encourage students as well as faculty members to achieve their maximum potential.   

SECTION: Objectives:
After completion of degree in Mathematics, our graduates  

SECTION: Implementation of the HEC assessment procedures to ensure quality standards for the
promotion of academic and research excellence.  

SECTION: To develop tangible feedback mechanism and carrying out multidimensional analysis of
each academic and research programs to ensure the quality assurance for further improvements in policy standards. 

SECTION: Faculty Members:
Dr: Kamran Malik  Associate Professor & 

SECTION: Chairman
Dr: Mushtaque Shaikh  Associate Professor Dr: M.Ilyas  Assistant Professor Mr: Khalid Hussain  Lecturer Mr: Muhammad Saleem 

SECTION: Laghari  Teaching Assistant
Mr: Muhammad Ashra f 

SECTION: Ali Teaching Assistant
Mr: Zuhaib Soomro  Teaching Assistant Mr: Ritesh Walecha  Teaching Assistant   

SECTION: Government College University Hyderabad
 Section Office of Research, Innovation and Commercialization (ORIC)  

SECTION: Director Message:
The Office of Research, Innovation, and Commercialization (ORIC) at the Government College University, Hyderabad was set up and told by Higher Education Commission (HEC) in January 2020. This is an extraordinary phase in coordinating the university’s research and academic activities. The ORIC office inspires the Research, Innovation, and Commercialization culture integration am ong universities, Industry, and Civil Society. Staff can commercialize their research work to the business to support the country which will foster a dependable relationship for future mutual benefit. Industry can use the tremendous assets like logical ins truments and the thoroughly prepared personnel and scientists to take care of their concerns and new advances can likewise be created through the use of native materials. We at ORIC are welcoming all corporate and social areas to hold hands with us for a s uperior coordinated methodology towards the improvement of the country. Territorial and global associations are additionally free to make joint exploration programs to assist the local area overall.  We are marking a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with various associations/universities with the goal to achieve substantial research propositions for joint research ventures and taking care of modern issues through the specialists accessible at the univ ersity who have many years of involvement with their particular preparation and research. You can contact our office for additional information and conversations which will work with the cycle for shared participation and combination.  

SECTION: About ORIC :
 

SECTION: HEC aims to create and keep a dynamic and Internationally competitive research area in
Pakistan that will make a huge commitment to financial and economic success, state and nation wellbeing, and the development and spread of information in association with the latest research terminology. The advancement of research is one of the main key destinations of the HEC. Through the program sent off by HEC and the drives to reinforce  the research cycle and cognizance, the research quality and result of universities and organizations in the nation showed incredible exaltations, and Pakistan was perceived as a rising star in an assortment of research disciplines by rate expansion in int ernationally cited to research publications. Notwithstanding, this is just the end of a start, and we should keep up with and work on this pattern, yet additionally think about issues of financial, social, and scholarly pertinence and effect on the research sector. To accomplish this objective, HEC h as begun to coordinate the research exercises of HEIs/universities and guarantee the presence of a grounded and completely working ORIC (Office of Research, Innovation, and Commercialization). ORIC will offer key strategic and functional support to the Uni versity's research section activities/programs and will assume a focal part in propelling the University's research outcomes.  

SECTION: Introduction:
As per the course of action of HEC and in pursuance of Vice Chancellor's Directives for streamlining the organization of Research Initiatives and Programs, there was a need to re - maintain the flow of Research and Development Center beforehand working at Government College University, Hyderabad for supporting and also improving the trends of research activities impact to further develop areas concerning to economic, industrial, social and academic development and their accelerated types of progress for achie ving the public objectives.  

SECTION: Vision:


SECTION: To strengthen and promote research culture in GCUH and in connection with the industry
with the university which would support and momentum up the course of creation and dispersion of knowledge that would serve the goal of the foundation of HEI. Aims of ORIC -GCUH: • To promote high -quality research that classifies as among the best research -oriented HEIs. • To provide strategic and operational support to the institute's research activities/program, and to have a central role in facilitating the research outcomes. • To strengthen university -industry linkage through ORIC. • Providing support to the students and faculty in their research. • To apply the research practically in order to improve the economy of the country. • To develop partnerships with universities to form joint research ventures. • To work out for the publication of the research work carried out in the university. • To promote entrepreneurship, technology transfer, and commercialization activities that energize and support the local and national economy. • Improve the hiring and retention of top faculty.  Key Functions of ORIC -GCUH: • To work under the directions of HEC. • Conduct two meetings a year with HEC. • Identifying and informing the faculty about the research grants opportunities for them to apply and then assist them in acquiring funds from international and national funding agencies. • To keep track of all the research carried out in the university by faculty and staff and then commercialize the relevant research to reap maximum benefit for the industry and therefore translating the research into the public benefit. • To deal with plagiarism cases and to advance an anti -plagiarism culture via powerful software for detecting plagiarism i.e., Turnitin. • Arranging seminars and workshops for the university’s students and faculty.  Organogram:   

SECTION: Objectives:
• Promote research culture in all departments of GCUH  • Represent the FUI's interests in research and development.  • Manage databases for research and development, which is essential to undertake important analyses.  • Compile/ analyze databases for the purpose of ORIC as well as university ranking.  • Disseminate information to the FUI campuses on research and development, and related funding opportunities. • Identify research opportunities for faculty members and students.  • Facilitate faculty to apply for both internal and external research grants.  • Provide legal, administrative and financial management support for research grants.  • Process applications of faculty and students for travel grants from HEC and GCUH  • Support commercialization, licensing etc. of the university research products.  • Encourage publishing of the campus/faculty/departmental research journals.  • Develop liaison with the funding agencies.  • Identify new ways and opportunities of collaborations.  • Encourage University -Industry linkages.  • Arrange and organize Training and Development programs.  • To provide assistance and guidance to the faculty members and PhD scholars in their research projects, ORIC is responsible to interact with the Higher Education Commission, Islamabad and other funding agencies.                   

SECTION: Our Team Members
Dr. Muhammed Shoaib 

SECTION: Khan
 Designation: Director ORIC Phone: 0334 -1369578 Dr. Tahira Qureshi  Designation: Research 

SECTION: Manager ORIC
 Mr. Shoaib Sheikh    Designation: Assistant 

SECTION: ORIC
    

SECTION: Contact Us:
Name: Dr. Muhammad Shoaib Khan Ph.D in Economics Email: dir.oric@gcuh.edu.pk Cell: +92-334-1369578   

SECTION: Government College University Hyderabad
 

SECTION: Section Department of Phys ics:
 

SECTION: Faculty Members :
 Dr: M.Najam Shaikh  Assistant Professor & In 

SECTION: Charge Chairman
Dr: Barkat Ali Laghari  Assistant Professor Mr: Abdul Sajid  Lecturer Mr: Qadir Bakhsh Yasir  Lecturer Mr: Muhammad Adnan  Lecturer Mr: Muhammad Hassan 

SECTION: Qureshi  Teaching Assistant
Mr: Muhammad Ameen  Visiting Faculty Mr: Muhammad Ahsan  Teaching Assistant   

SECTION: Government College University Hyderabad
 Section Quality Enhancement Cell (QEC)  

SECTION: Introduction:
The Quality Enhancement Cell (QEC) at Government College (GC) University Hyderabad is responsible for a systematic and integrated approach for management of university policies, procedures and activities. It aims to elevate a culture of sustainable mechani sm of quality assurance at GC University Hyderabad through stake holder’s engagement, enduring self - evaluation and ongoing development.  The QEC’s operations orbit around the quality of teaching, learning, research and management under the umbrella of HEC criterion. 

SECTION: Vision:
 

SECTION: To nurture the core values of academic and research excellence in order to evolve     GC University
Hyderabad into an organization that meets significant national and international quality standards.  

SECTION: Mission:


SECTION: The Quality Enhancement Cell is committed to foster a sustainable quality assurance mechanism
to support the GC University Hyderabad through stakeholder engagement for ongoing process of self -evaluation, monitoring and striving to achieve the highest level of academic  and research excellence at national and international level.  

SECTION: Objectives:
• Implementation of the HEC assessment procedures to ensure quality standards for the promotion of academic and research excellence. • To develop tangible feedback mechanism and carrying out multidimensional analysis of each academic and research programs to ensure the quality assurance for further improvements in policy standards. • To Act as a co -ordination office between University and national and international organizations for capacity building and training programs. • To facilitate academic departments to Adopt appropriate standards to get accreditation with relevant accreditation councils.  • Promoting the confidence among society by attaining top ranking among national and international HEIs. 

SECTION: Sustainable Development Goals :
 • The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are the world’s shared plan to end extreme poverty, reduce inequality, and protect the planet by 2030. • Adopted by 193 countries in 2015, the SDGs emerged from the most inclusive and comprehensive negotiations in UN history and have inspired people from across sectors, geographies, and cultures. Achieving the goals by 2030 will require heroic and imaginative effort, determination to learn about what works, and agility to adapt to new information and changing trends. • The UN Foundation focuses on ideas and initiatives that generate larger impact, advance the SDG imperative to “leave no one behind,” and are backed by evidence, practical commitments, and action. Individuals, innovations, and actions are helping the planet  realize the potential and promise of the SDGs. In this connection, GC University is also striving hard to contribute in the SDGs.  

SECTION: Contact Details:
Name: Hakim Ali Junejo 

SECTION: Deputy Director QEC
Email: dd.qec@gcuh.edu.pk Phone: +92 312 32 00 828 Address: QEC Office GCUH Main Campus, Opposite Pinyari Police Station Kaali Mori, Hyderabad, Sindh, Pakistan. 

SECTION: Government College University Hyderabad
 

SECTION: Section Department of Zoology  and Microbiology :
 

SECTION: Introduction


SECTION: Department of Zoology has always played leading role in academic and extracurricular
activities of the university. The department has well equipped laboratories with latest facilities with highly qualified and well trained and experienced, enthusiastic and devoted faculty members. The teaching has been carried out through multimedia along with different tactics like activities, group discussi on etc.  

SECTION: Vision
The vision of Department of Zoology, GCUH is to develop excellence in Animal Science education, research, community and environmental service. Capacity building of students and promoting Animal conservation and ethics in the Modern Era.  

SECTION: Mission


SECTION: The department of education is committed to equip the prospective teachers and
educationists with the up -to-date pedagogical and research skills and disposition to enable them to keep the pace with an ever -changing world.  1- To develop excellence in educating students about foundation of Animal world.  2- To impart skills in applied aspect of Zoology  3- To develop attitude in student to serve community and environment. 4- To develop technical manpower for research and commercialization.  5- To conserve Animal and Nature.  

SECTION: Proposed Academic Programs
 BS 4 -year Program BS 4 -year Program in Microbiology MS/M.Phil. Program 

SECTION: PhD Program
 

SECTION: Faculty Members  of Zoology :
 Prof. Dr. Abdul Manan Shaikh   Professor & Chairman Dr. Bhojoo Mal  Associate Professor Dr. Shakeel Ahmed 

SECTION: Memon  Assistant Professor
Mr. Dhani Bux Mashori  Assistant Professor Dr. Aiman Amur  Lecturer Dr. Bakhtawar Soomro  Lecturer      

SECTION: Faculty Members of Microbiology:
 Mr. Asim Patrick  Lecturer Mr. Abdul Sami Dahiri  Lecturer             

SECTION: Supporting Staff  of Microbiology and Zoology :
 Mr. Zaheer Ud Din  Senior Lab Assistant Mr. Badruddin Bhatti  Laboratory Assistant Mr. Muhammed Arif  Laboratory Assistant   